The station of the cross presents sermons for everyday living, powerful sermons from faithful and inspirational priests.
Our first sermon for today is entitled, Saint Matthias, build the lofty edifice of sanctity on the deep foundation of humility.
Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost.
Amen.
A few brief reflections as another great apostle peeks through the liturgical calendar in these beginning days of Lent.
The church gives us these saints to inspire us on our way as we too make our pilgrimage to Easter Sunday and become witnesses of the resurrection.
It's very interesting how St. Peter
When he speaks of St. Matthias or the successor to Judas, they were looking for witnesses of the resurrection, those who had preached Christ crucified and risen from the dead.
And so we too should also in our own lives keep in mind that the resurrection, even as we go through this season of Lent, that we're coming to an end, right?
We're coming to the end of the resurrection, both liturgically, but also too in our own lives.
You know, we're seeking.
to be united to Christ in His resurrection, as we pray every day, three times a day in the Angelus, that we were brought to the glory of His resurrection, the glory of Christ's resurrection.
We see in this passage of the Acts of the Apostles, St. Peter immediately, in the first chapter of the Acts of the Apostles, beginning his ministry as the head of the church.
He does two things that points to this
authority as the chief of the apostles.
The first is the interpretation of scripture.
He applies this verse from the Psalms to Judas and he says, this must be fulfilled and it's fulfilled by his own actions and appointing Matthias, right?
This is important because when we speak to our prophets and brothers and sisters, they often will admit that the apostles had a special role
in Christ's ministry and even the time after Christ's ascension into heaven, but it stopped there.
If we point this fact that Saint Peter appoints ordains a successor of Judas, it at least will make them pause.
For they say, after the death of last apostle, that was it, that role finished.
Well, if that's the case,
Why did they have to appoint a successor for Judas?
Just because they liked the number 12 or, you know, they didn't have enough people to do it without him.
I mean, Paul would have been the 12th, right?
He's that super apostle, the 13th, right?
If it was just about a number, Paul would have done just fine, but it's not about a number.
It's about that role being passed down, being an apostolic church, not only in the days of the apostles, but even now.
today were just as apostolic as we were after the ascension of Christ as a church.
So St. Peter, taking that authority from Christ, being sent with the same authority of Christ, begins to do the same thing Christ did in his earthly ministry, interpreted scripture.
We recall one of his first times going to the synagogue where he reads on the prophet Isaiah,
He tells all those there, this day this scripture is fulfilled in your hearing.
So we see Peter, the scriptures must be fulfilled and then he fulfills them by appointing Matthias.
He interprets scripture, he appoints successors to the apostles just like Christ interpreted scripture in the beginning of his public ministry and appointed the 12 apostles.
Saint Augustine,
and his two homilies the church gives us today, has a beautiful reflection on the role of the apostles and reflecting on Psalm 86, Fundamenta Eus and Montibus Sanctis.
Their foundations are in the mountains, the holy mountains.
He makes a reflection upon the 12 gates of Jerusalem.
He sees the apostles
as fulfillment of this type, these 12 gates of the city of Jerusalem.
The city of Jerusalem, as we know, represents the heavenly Jerusalem.
And the 12 gates represent the 12 apostles, which are the gates through which we enter into the kingdom of heaven.
And he has a beautiful reflection.
He says, the church is made up of peoples from all over the world.
When we speak of the entirety of the world and the peoples that are up, we usually speak of the four corners of the earth, the north, the south, the east, and the west.
Now these people, the four corners of the world, are brought into this heavenly Jerusalem through baptism in the name of the Father and of the Son.
and have the Holy Spirit.
Saint Augustine says, four corners of the world, all the peoples of the world, baptize the name of the Trinity, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.
Four times three is 12.
It's very fitting then that there were 12 apostles, 12 gates through which by their preaching and baptism, the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, they'd bring the four corners of the earth
into the one kingdom of Christ, the heavenly Jerusalem.
In his second homily, St. Augustine speaks of today's gospel.
He says we are burdened, have many trials and sufferings because of our frailty as creatures, especially creatures who have the effects of original sin.
Thank you, Adam.
He says, in order to alleviate these burdens, we must go to the expanse of charity, the infinite charity of Christ.
And so Christ invites us, come to me, all you who are heavy burdened, and I will give you rest.
to your souls.
It's an invitation for all of us to come to his most sacred heart as we are placed or we see very clearly, especially in this time of Lent, our frailty and weakness as we struggle to keep our Lenten resolutions as we struggle to overcome our faults and sins.
Our Lord invites us, come to me, all you who are heavy burdened and I will give you rest.
And then he says, learn of me.
And St. Augustine goes through a couple of different things.
What does he ask us to learn?
Does he ask us to learn how to create the world, to raise the dead, to perform miracles?
He says, no, learn of me because I am meek and humble of heart.
This is very important.
Why?
Because our Lord wants to build up in us the edifice of sanctity.
And Saint Augustine rightly points out, this is a very lofty goal, the very face to face vision of God in heaven.
Well, if you've ever looked at the construction site of a skyscraper, look at the foundation.
How deep is it?
Well, depending on how tall the building is, very deep.
The taller the building, the deeper the foundation.
St. Augustine tells us we're going to the highest heights.
And so our foundation must be the deepest.
That deepest humility.
which our Lord shows us and emptying himself, becoming obedient unto death, even the death of the cross so that he can rise again.
So if we wish to rise glorious with Christ, to be witnesses to his resurrection, we must be humble.
And true humility, which is truth itself, as St. Teresa of Avila tells us, is based on that truth that God is God.
And I am not and I rely upon him for everything.
Every beat of my heart, every breath that I take is dependent upon the love of our Lord.
I am not self-sufficient at all.
And our Lord told us as much without me, you can do nothing zero.
And so during this time of Lent where we're especially striving after this necessary virtue of humility, that foundation of the spiritual life, let us ask Saint Matthias and all the great apostles, witnesses of the resurrection so that we too can follow them and being witnesses of this glorious resurrection, participate in it.
at the end of our lives, but also too as we journey towards heaven and the continuous resurrection to new life, new heights of sanctity, and that we might learn from these great witnesses of the resurrection that most essential virtue of humility and by this virtue receive the promise of Christ to receive rest to our souls.
For how many burdens are upon our shoulders
How many burdens do we struggle with in our daily lives because we're trying to do it ourselves?
If we allow Christ into our lives, even the smallest detail, it will become easy.
His yoke then we will see is truly sweet as burdened light.
And we will find that beautiful rest.
for our souls.
In the name of the Father and the Son of the Holy Ghost.
Amen.
We hope you enjoyed that sermon entitled, Saint Matthias.
Build the lofty edifice of sanctity on the deep foundation of humility.
Our next sermon is entitled, The Spiritual Discipline of Fasting.
this Lent, the sacred liturgy examines the spiritual discipline of fasting.
There's two things we can consider in respect to the generosity, the purity and value of our fasting during this Lent.
And the first is objective in terms of actually fasting.
We live in a world full of contradictions and one of those contradictions is that we tend to go to extremes of either reducing everything to body or everything to pure spirit and
and the world doesn't like to fast and abstain.
And it seems in recent years, a lot of times the Lenten fast is reduced to a kind of spirit of fasting, which doesn't really have much of a content.
We give up a few things here and there, but objectively our fasting doesn't tend to amount to much.
I'm not talking about people who have health problems or
or older or younger, but just in terms of thinking about this particular season in preparation for Easter, we should think about being generous with God and actually fasting, particularly from food.
St. John B.N.A.
who was a great penitent and who suffered from the assaults of Satan because he was a great confessor as well, used to say that the modes of penance that really were effective against Satan were actual fasting from food and deprivation of sleep.
And so we ought to ask our Lord to give us the strength during this Lent to
to truly fast on the days that are appropriate on the Fridays of Lent.
We should also think about, on the other hand, though, that fasting is not merely a bodily discipline.
Dieting is a kind of fasting, but that doesn't make it virtuous.
In the context of today's reading from Isaiah, we know that sometimes fasting can be lip service to God.
Even physical austere fasting can be offensive to God when it is not coined joined to a true spirit of virtue, a true spirit of penance and a desire to please God.
Isaiah talks about this false fasting of people who would
abstained from food, but on the other hand they were quarreling and fighting and striking out with wicked claw.
It was for show.
And our Lord criticizes this as well among the Pharisees who used to put on a sour face and wouldn't groom themselves to make it clear that they were fasting.
This was not
pleasing to God.
So on the one hand, there's the subjective aspect of actually making a generous effort to abstain and to fast.
And on the other hand, there is the spirit which motivates it, the subjective part, what is within our own hearts, what motivates us to do these things and that purifies it and makes it pleasing to God.
And this is why when the disciples of John came to our Lord and asked them why his
His disciples, our Lord's disciples, didn't fast.
He talked really about motive.
You know, I'm here with them now.
When I am gone, they will fast.
And this is because really our motive in fasting is, of course, to do penance.
But it's also to leave room in our hearts for God, or to make room in our hearts for God.
To reject the world
and its deceptions and to recognize more perfectly, more generously that it is only God that can satisfy us.
It is only our Lord who can save us from ourselves and make us truly generous.
And so really our fasting is a sign of our desire, hopefully a sign of our desire to be one with God.
And God sees our efforts.
and he rewards them with the power that is beyond our strength.
And that's what we should be praying for as we fast and as we pray.
It's kind of a little bit of a paradox that on the one hand our objective efforts to please God through our penances and prayers has to be real.
It can't be simply, you know, this sort of amorphous
vague spirit of prayer or spirit of penance.
You know, if we say that our work is our prayer, we don't give time to God, and that's sort of a self-deception.
But if we do give time to God and we actually spend time in prayer, then we can make our work prayer.
So on the one hand, there is this objective aspect of prayer and penance of a ascetical life.
Yet on the other hand,
The value of these things is not mathematical.
It doesn't mean that the more we pray, the more pleasing we are to God mathematically, or that the more that we do penance, the more that we add penance onto penance, that makes me necessarily more pleasing to God because I do more penance than the next person.
This is the subjective error that sometimes religious people make.
They interpret and measure spirituality in a very materialistic way.
And this is also an error.
And so we should, on our knees and in a spirit of humility, ask our lady what is pleasing to God.
Ask the best course of action that we ought to take in order to be pleasing to God.
And then very often that involves also taking advice from a confessor, a spiritual director, in order to
make sure that our penances, our prayer, our ascetical life is rooted in the most fundamental thing, the thing that is most important to all these actions anyway, which is humility.
We give up certain things in order to reject the pride of life and the lust of the eyes and the lust of the flesh, which is all pride.
Self gratification is pride.
And so it's necessary that all these people
these practices be rooted in humility, in a desire to please God and not to please ourselves.
Because after all, that's what we seek to do during this Lent as we prepare for Easter.
And so as we can reflect that in a certain sense, the bridegroom has taken away that we are in this period of penance waiting for Easter.
Let us do penance with generosity and with the right motives.
with the motive to please God and to give Him glory.
We hope you enjoyed that sermon entitled, The Spiritual Discipline of Fasting.
Our next sermon is entitled, St. Matthias, Apostle Making Perfection.
We celebrate today with a great apostle.
The last apostle was Saint Matthias.
He was one of the first to follow our Savior.
And he was an eyewitness to all the divine actions from our Lord's baptism up to His ascension.
How can we imagine how holy this apostle was?
Hearing all the words of Jesus Christ walking the way of His mission,
on this earth.
He was one of the 72 disciples then, but our Lord had not conferred on him directly in his lifetime the dignity of being an apostle.
And yet he was to have this magnificent glory for it was of him that David spoke in the scripture when he prophesied that another should take the bishopic left fakens by the
apostasy of Judas is carried the traitor.
In the interval then between Jesus ascension and the descent of the Holy Spirit, the Apostolic College had to complete the mystic number fixed by our Lord himself so that they may be 12 on that solemn day on the descent.
The solemn day when the church filled with the Holy Ghost was to manifest itself
herself to the whole universal world.
It was fitting then when the 12 were reduced to 11, remember after the suicide, the self-murder of Judas that the fullness of the biblical number had to be restored.
This is where today's great apostle steps in, out from the shadows to play his part
in Christian history.
This is the first chapter of the Acts of the Apostles, just read the great history book of the church.
The second book, as we say, of Saint Luke tells us after the ascension, the 11 apostles returned to Jerusalem to pray with the lady, the mother, in the Chinakalo, being a worn heart.
Then Peter
stood up among the believers to tell them that someone who had accompanied us during all the time our Lord Jesus Christ went in and out among us must be witness with us to His resurrection.
Two names were proposed to replace Judas.
Matthias and Joseph called Barsovis.
Then the eleven prayed to the Lord to show them the way.
They cast
the lots.
Matthias was thus chosen.
An apostle for the first time had a successor.
And of equal significance, the appointment came from the group, a college of apostles led by Peter himself.
This was established just days after Christ left the earth, a form of church
Preservation and growth that would be repeated and still repeated tens of thousands of times in Christian history.
The lot then fell on Matthias.
He shared with his brother apostles, then the persecution in Jerusalem.
When the time came for the ambassadors of Christ to separate through God's providence, he set out for the countries allotted to him.
tells us these were Cappadocia and the provinces bordering on the Caspian Sea.
The virtues and the labor and sufferings of Saint Matthias have not been handed down to us.
But what about we can say something about the holiness of Matthias?
Obviously he was suited for apostleship by the experience being from
Christ our Savior from baptism to ascension.
He must also have been suited personally or he would not have been nominated for such a great responsibility.
If the apostles are the foundations of our faith by their witness, they must also be the reminders that holiness is entirely a matter of God's giving.
And it is offered to all in the everyday circumstances of life.
We call also Pentecost the Apostles being of one heart, filled with the power of the Holy Spirit and also confirmed in sanctifying grace.
Life then is an undeserved gift for us from the Lord, who has the right of life to be born.
This is a gift from the Lord.
Although God didn't need us and was happy without us, He still chose in His goodness to create us.
Not only that, but He made us in His own image and likeness.
Redeemed by the precious blood of Jesus Christ, He nourishes us with His Christ's flesh and supports us, sustains us and loves us in
His condescension every moment, despite, for the most part, our own ingratitude.
He allows us to be His children and wants us to give us His kingdom and paradise.
In fact, as we know in His goodness, He made us for Himself.
God made us to know Him, to love Him, and to serve Him.
to be happy with Him forever in this life and in the next.
So the Lord specifically chose to make each one of us in particular instead of an infinite number of other people He could have made.
Each of us was wanted and planned by the Lord.
We are loved by Him.
As you read in the scripture, can a mother forget her infant?
Be without tenderness for the child of the womb.
Even should she forget, I will never forget you.
The Lord says to each and everyone, I will never forget you.
Jesus Christ tells us in the Holy Scripture that he came so that we might have life and have it more abundantly.
So to this end, he suffered a painful, violent and cruel death.
Upon his resurrection, he sought not vengeance but offered peace.
He gives us daily nourishment.
Nourishment for the faithful with his own flesh.
Despite our many sins, God continues to receive and forgive and lavish gifts on his prodigal children, desiring us to spend eternity with him.
Truly life is a precious gift from our most loving and generous Lord of hosts.
The choice of Matthias then made new again this perfection of this number 12.
We ponder well on this statistic or this number, this number of perfection.
We often reflect, we see in the scripture of
the perfection of twelve tribes of Israel, the twelve apostles.
Thus called, we speak of the day and even we note this beautiful number of perfection with our Lady, with the twelve stars and virtues encircling the head of the Lady of the Apocalypse.
Twelve then is in the Gospel, they're bringing back to being a whole again.
We notice that the woman in the gospel suffering from the hemorrhage for 12 years touches the hem of the garment of Jesus Christ.
She is made whole again by her faith.
The little girl aged 12 in the same passage rises again after touching Jesus.
She is made whole again by means of the faith of her father
the ruler of the Jewish synagogue.
Both then made whole after 12 years.
So there are many other significances tied to this number 12.
As God prescribed this number to have meaning and purpose of completeness or perfection of being made whole physically and spiritually.
Both were healed then.
The young girl and the woman with the hurried
permerage in this way body and soul by the divine touch.
Where can we experience this divine touch and this healing in today's life?
Where to be made whole again in this path towards Lent?
Where can we put our faith into action as the Gospel tells us today in no other place than the
healing room of all times, the confessional, the box called the medicine box, and one of the sacraments of the Catholic Church, one of the sacraments most abandoned in our times.
This is what the gospel teaches us, bend down and be humble.
Because our Lord, He says in the scripture today, is meek and humble of heart.
Our Lord is calling you,
into the medicine box.
To confess your sins, why?
To be made whole again.
It's just not one of the greatest gifts from the Lord.
Not only does He give us the gift of the apostles, the gift of faith, the gift of our Lady, but allows us to humble ourselves before His throne of mercy, to receive His most precious blood through the words of Absolution from the priest,
gratifying God's judgment to heal our souls.
So we must be always seeking to be in a state of grace, to behold in the confessional, to be, as it were, the number 12.
Do not be the number zero.
Number 12, perfection, do not be zero, which would signify being without sanctifying grace in mortal sin.
Let us then imitate the faith of the woman touching the Christ our Savior in the confessional.
Realize the true miracle where our souls can be washed clean and made brilliantly white.
Let us not be greedy and confess very rarely because the grace of the sacrament covers not just your soul but the rest of us.
together the whole mystical body of the church.
Of all, let us ask the Blessed Virgin Mary, Cori Demprix, the foot of the cross, for the grace to humble ourselves before Jesus Christ, to have the deep desire in our hearts never to offend Him who is the author of all of creation.
Let us finally thank God then for the gift of the
12 Apostles and Saint Matthias today for the gift of confession, which can make us whole and spotless.
Ready to gaze on the glory of the Holy Trinity with Mary our mother and all the saints forever and ever.
Amen.
May the holy names of Jesus and Mary and Joseph be blessed now and forever.
In the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit.
Amen.
We hope you enjoyed that sermon entitled, St. Matthias, Apostle Making Perfection.
Our next sermon is entitled, Forgiveness in Lent.
Our Lady, Seat of Wisdom.
In the name of the Father and the Son of the Holy Spirit.
One of the important themes of this holy season of Lent is the theme of forgiveness.
the first and foremost that we are seeking forgiveness from God from our transgressions and sins and seeking to atone for them those transgressions and sins by our prayers, our penances, our sacrifices, and by going to the confession.
But also this season is a time for us to examine ourselves
and perhaps those who have injured us that we still have not forgiven.
And one of the important graces of this season is that our hearts are purified in any unforgiveness we may hold in our heart and to be truly forgiving those who have injured us in any way.
And sometimes these people may have been in our past, people who we perhaps went to school with or worked with or
whom we even lived with.
And perhaps these people are even still alive, but we sometimes still hold memories of injuries in our heart which rise up in us, resentment and sentiments which are not pleasing to our Lord.
This season reminds us of the importance of forgiving those who have injured us.
I can't remember which saint it was who said it, but there was a saint who said that
Our Lord is so pleased by the act of forgiveness, when we forgive those who have injured us, is as if we've obtained a pleninary indulgence, that he forgives us the injuries we've caused him.
And the saints teach us this theme of forgiveness.
And some of the saints were not able to forgive immediately, but they made progress by making steps of forgiveness.
cases which is very beautiful as Saint Francis de Chantal who was married and her husband was on a hunting trip and Accidentally one of his companions at the hunting trip shot him and mortally wounded him and before he died he forgave the man who shot him and told him not to have any any sorrow it was an accident but Saint Francis de Chantal
found it very hard to forgive the man who killed her husband by accident.
And she held within herself some bitterness and resentment towards him.
But she resolved to try to make steps.
And she made the resolution that if she saw him in the streets, she would greet him and ask how she started.
Because she couldn't even talk to him in the beginning or look at him.
So great was her grief and her resentment for having killed her husband.
And little by little, she made steps in forgiving him.
And when she saw him in the streets, she made that resolution.
I will at least greet him as I pass by him.
And she did that.
And eventually she was able to rise above that and go a step further and invite him to her home for dinner.
And finally, she was able to forgive him completely, so much so that he asked her to be the godmother to one of his children, and she accepted.
And other saints we see teach us this spirit of forgiveness.
One of my favorite is Saint, is the famous Saint, I've just gone blank again, but was Saint Maria Goretti.
who of course we know as just being 12 years old having received terrible wounds which brought her to the door of death at so tender an age.
And yet her last words were that she forgave Alexandro and wanted only his salvation and his eternal salvation and offering her death for his conversion.
And of course we know the beautiful example of our Lord
After he was crucified, Father forgive them for they know not what they do.
And of course our blessed mother.
And so this season of Lent is a not time for us to truly purge ourselves of any sentiments of unforgiveness we may hold in our heart.
And asking Our Lady for that grace to forgive those who've injured us in any way that we, when we approach the festival of Easter, our hearts may be truly purified and be cleansed of any
any inkling of unforgiveness that we may truly embrace the joy of the Easter season with renewed hearts completely conformed to Jesus our Lord.
In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and the Holy Spirit.
We hope you enjoyed that sermon entitled, Forgiveness in Lent.
Our final sermon for today is entitled, St. Matthias.
Random Chants Chosen to replace Judas Iscariot, I've recorded in Acts chapter 1, the disciples are gathered in the upper room with 120 other disciples, and two men were chosen, Joseph, Bar-Sabbas, and then Matthias.
And the apostles prayed and cast lots, and Matthias was chosen.
And so very little is known of the life of St. Matthias, except that he preached around Judea first, like most of the other apostles, and then in Greece and then to Ethiopia.
And finally, preaching in what is now the former Soviet Republic of Georgia.
Anyway, so St. Matthias preaches in what is now the Republic of Georgia.
And that's where he was martyred.
He was stoned and then beheaded there in Georgia.
And also, too, it's interesting, you'll hear some things like, well, we don't know exactly what happened to St. Matthias, and some reports say he was martyred here, and other reports have him dying of old age in Jerusalem.
Now, we would know that to be false right off the bat, because all the apostles were martyrs.
It's fitting that every single apostle give his life for Christ.
The only exception was St. John, the apostle.
and they tried to murder him, but it didn't work.
Like you put him in boiling oil and he came out looking healthier than when he went in, so they exiled him to Patmos, the island of Patmos.
So that's it for the life of St. Matthias.
Again, very little is known, but some very interesting details that we can think about, that we can kind of meditate upon this life of St. Matthias.
First of all is the interesting occasion, or occasion, the fact that he was chosen by lots, casting dice.
Why would the apostles leave something up to chance?
Very often we ask that question about God in our life.
Was this up to chance or not?
It seems like things are random.
I thought God was in control, but here's this random event.
What are we supposed to make of that?
Some people, they struggle with that, like the idea of chance and randomness.
Well, here we have in the Bible, the apostles
leaving things up to God, the making use of chance.
Boy, we get into a whole thing like the fate and chance and the way the pagans looked at that.
But it is good to remember that God created everything and chance was created by God.
Randomness was created by God.
And many people don't realize how ordered and predictable is chance and randomness.
They wouldn't think of this like, isn't randomness something that's like disorganized?
Yes, but even in the disorder, there is order.
In fact, you have statisticians and these mathematicians and they study chance and randomness.
And I think I heard something about a professor and he had, if it was class, he had like whatever it was, like a stack of cards and half the cards had random numbers on it and half the cards were blank.
Right?
And he asked the students, okay, fill out these cards and I'll be able to tell you which is which.
And so they came back and he was able to tell these cards are random and these cards are made up.
Like, how did you do that?
Because he's like, the human mind is ordered.
And the human mind, it's hard for our minds not to fall into predictable patterns.
And so he can separate the two.
But if you look at, I don't know if you know fractals or the Fibonacci numbers, et cetera, et cetera, the mountain peaks
They follow a mathematical pattern.
Trees in the forest follow a mathematical pattern.
Snowflakes follow a mathematical pattern.
The shorelines of countries or whatever, continents, all these things are patterned.
Flowers and animals and creatures and galaxies and hurricanes, they all have things in common.
So this is why you have these astrophysicists who will end up
converting, becoming at least Christian because they realized this chance follows a pattern.
So there's just kind of the first thing there in the Bible is looking at that God is in control of chance and randomness.
It is ordered and follows his will, follows his pattern.
So when you leave something up to chance, it's not really up to chance.
God already knows what's going to happen.
It's part of his plan.
And there's three ways of looking at why the apostles chose lots to choose St. Matthias.
Either God, you could say, okay, did they throw the dice and God made the dice fall onto St. Matthias?
Or did God inspire the apostles to choose to throw dice because he knew how it was gonna turn out?
Or did God was God okay with either man being chosen because they were both good and he was gonna give grace to whichever man it happened to be?
These are all different ways we can look at chance and randomness, but fundamentally, God knows what's going to happen and he does have a plan.
So don't think that when things in your life happen, quote by chance, that I'm unlucky, or God hates me, or whatever it is, or poor me.
Don't think about that, right?
This is all part of God's providence and God's order in the universe.
And you could even ask the question too, why did God choose Judas when he knew Judas was going to betray him?
It's not as if,
Christ our Lord chose 11 faithful disciples and then said, okay, now I have to choose a traitor, right?
That's not how God works.
People choose to be evil.
People choose to fail in the plan God had for them.
And let's see, Judas.
He didn't choose all fishermen.
He didn't choose all tax collectors.
He didn't choose all Pharisees, right?
I mean, St. Paul was a Pharisee.
St. Paul was an apostle.
Peter and James and John and his brothers were all fishermen.
But Matthew was a tax collector, an educated man.
And it's been said in, I think the fathers of the church say that Judas was like a doctor of the law.
He was very educated.
Judas was one of the most capable of the apostles.
And he had a job to do.
He kept the purse.
He was very good with money.
Too good, unfortunately, right?
It got to him.
And so Christ our Lord needed, or I should say this, he chose to need other men to help him in his ministry.
He chose to need other people.
He could have done it all himself, but he did it.
That's not how God works.
So he chooses among men and women
those people whom he wants to associate in his work of salvation.
And Judas accomplished that.
Judas kept the purse.
Judas had work to do in Christ's three-year mission.
And Judas' mission was accomplished.
The reason why Christ chose Judas was accomplished.
The sad thing is that Judas, by his own avarice, lost the reward that was supposed to be there from his participation in that.
All the apostles, they were supposed to be sitting on the 12 thrones, judging the 12 tribes of Israel because they did what God wanted them to do.
They were subservient.
They obeyed God.
But Judas wanted to obey God.
How can I say this?
He did what God wanted them to do because it was advantageous to himself.
That's what he turned it into.
He's like, okay, well, this is what I'm doing, and I've been chosen here, but you know, I don't really want what God wants.
I'm seeing that I can turn this to my own advantage.
And that's what undid him, and that's what undoes everybody, is that we can't choose in this life where God has put us, whether we're men or women, that can't be changed, right?
Whether we have this station or that station, to what parents we were born, into what country, into what culture, you know, we can't change that.
And God does, he foresees that based on who he made us to be, he has a plan that is going to make us happy and that he wants us to fulfill.
He wants us to accomplish his designs.
And we're going to end up doing that one way or the other.
And our choice is, do I receive a reward, a reward for doing God's work or am I going to lose everything?
Right?
Even the wicked, even the pagans serve God's purpose.
They can serve as a warning to others.
How many people are converted by the example of, like, you have two wicked men, and one of them says, you know, I don't want to do this anymore.
And he converts, but the other one doesn't.
Or you have two good men, and one of them says, I don't want to do this anymore.
Right?
And it becomes wicked.
The choice is ours.
Nobody's forced one way or another to accept salvation to be wicked or to be good.
But what they can't change is that God will turn everything to good.
People will accomplish God's will.
So look at the difference between Judas and Peter, right?
They both betrayed Christ.
They both failed.
They both were weak.
The difference was at St. Peter, his failure, his betrayal was one of weakness.
He loved our Lord.
He wanted to do what God wanted him to do.
Judas, his failure was, I don't want to do what God wants me to do.
I'm gonna do my own thing.
And I think I know better than God.
I thought that is what we were told from the fathers.
Um, so I would say regardless of, of the difficulties in life, uh, you know, if, if, if, um, you know, you think if a better idea than God or God gave me a raw deal or I'm angry at God and therefore, you know, I'm going to rebel against him.
That's foolishness.
That's childishness.
We're going to go through all that suffering, all that effort, just like Judas.
He worked for three years and got nothing, right?
He's still down there in hell, right?
And we could have been for 2,000 years up there with, with Christ our Lord.
So very sad when we feel sorry for ourselves or feel like we have a better idea, we're going to lose everything.
We've done the work and then we just lose all the reward.
And it seems today, there are so many men in the church who seem like they are in it for themselves.
Don't be dismayed by that.
Don't be dismayed at all the Judas priests there seem to be in the world because we never know.
Are they going to be a Saint Peter?
Are they going to turn around?
Are they going to convert?
Or are they going to be lost?
But even if they are, as it says in the scriptures, right, let another take his place.
God will raise up those St. Matthias' to take the place of those wicked men, right, who are in it for themselves.
Doing the work of God, right, being bishops, you know, granting faculties, ordaining priests, you know, saying masses, that's necessary.
Even if such men get lost, we have still benefited.
Those people, those poor, certainly some poor people got the money that Judas was responsible for dispersing.
People benefited by the appearance of Judas.
Judas appeared good even on the last supper.
The night of the last supper, he left, God said to Judas, go, what thou dost do quickly.
And nobody knew that they were still arguing.
Who's it gonna be?
Who's gonna betray him?
So Judas still,
externally gave a good example, and God used that to convert people.
God still used Judas.
So God is still using everybody, everybody in the church, every prelate, every priest, every bishop, every pope, even if they're bad, even if they end up being lost, still can accomplish God's design.
And they still can repent.
We just don't know.
And I would say another thing to keep in mind is just because we feel that we've been chosen by God doesn't mean that we're saved.
Right?
We can still lose it through our own selfishness, through our own negligence, through our own carelessness.
The faith is no guaranteed.
That is what fear and trembling is all about, as St. Paul says.
What is it?
Not that we're afraid of losing hell despite our best efforts, but what happens is if we stop giving our best efforts, that's a slippery slope.
Right?
Well, I give God my second best efforts, and now I give Him my minimum effort, and now, you know, I just don't really care at all.
That's how it happens.
So when we're fervent, we need to keep saying, okay, I need to keep trying as hard as I can.
There's ups and downs, but my salvation is not guaranteed.
I can lose through my own megalithism, through my own selfishness or stubbornness.
So, but recall, all things are ordered by God.
There is a hierarchy, a place in heaven, and God knows where we wind up.
Our job is just to fulfill that.
I don't know where God wants me whether it's high or low or sooner or later We leave it up to God and that would be I would say the one thing that keeps us from becoming You know either bitter or falling into self-pity or feeling sorry for ourselves or second-guessing God is like wait a minute Who could have seen the resurrection coming right even the apostles God told them planning over and over again.
They didn't see it coming and
Who could have foreseen this?
Not even the angels.
The angels don't even know when the end of the world is.
The angels don't even know what's going to happen.
So respect God's omnipotence.
Respect the fact that God knows everything.
And anytime you start thinking about chance or fate or what was me or why this, why that, take a step back and say, okay, God knows everything.
I don't know where he wants me.
I don't know what his plan is.
I'm just happy I'm a part of it.
I'm just happy that I have a chance.
And what's my chance?
It's not like I don't have to be skilled or gifted or lucky.
I just have to obey.
I just have to accept whatever's going on and do my best.
And that's wonderful because everybody can do that.
Everybody can try their best.
Everybody can be silent when they feel like a complaining or arguing.
We can all do that.
And that's a guarantee for salvation.
What's my guarantee?
Right now, I do my best and I do what I know is right.
That's a guarantee for salvation in the here and now.
So let us meditate upon that.
Let us pray for the intercession of Saint Matthias.
And regardless of what happens in life, as I said, accept it as from the hand of God.
Humbly, willingly, he will turn it to good.
God bless you all.
May the Father send me a holy ghost.
Amen.
We hope you enjoyed our final sermon for today, entitled, Saint Matthias, Random Chance.
Thank you for listening to the Station of the Cross presents, Sermons for Everyday Living.
May these sermons help you grow in your faith journey.
Please say three Hail Marys for the priests who preached today's sermons.
We hope you will join us again next time for, Sermons for Everyday Living.
Have a blessed day.